Game instructions

The screen

    The screen is divided into two zones. On the left the
    game board. On the right you have (from top to down)
    the main menu key, the progress bars of each color, the
    die surrounded by a rectangle whose color indicates the
    player who has the turn, a text area with directions
    and two buttons whose use changes according to the
    state of the game.

Start a game

    When Parchis v5 starts it shows the New game screen
    (except if a game was previously saved). If you are in
    the middle of a game and you want to start a new one
    press Menu and touch the New game option.

    On the New Game screen you can choose between single or
    pairs game, for each color select whether it will be
    handled by a human or a robot or no play. You have five
    robot levels to choose from:

    Level 0, which plays randomly.
    Level 1, prefers to go to secures and eat if it can,
             but it has a great component of chance.
    Level 2, like level 1, but doesn't forgive if it can
             eat any pawn.
    Level 3, which takes into account the pawns it can eat
             and those you can eat it.
    Level 4, which also values other situations, as if it
             has pawns at home, if it can count when eating
             or entering goal, etc.

    When you start the game you will see a little dummy in
    each corner indicating whether it is human or robot.
    For the robots a karate belt will indicate its level.
    White for level 0, yellow for level 1, orange for level
    2, green for level 3 and blue for level 4.

    The "Options" button allows you to choose various
    options for the game:

     - Who begins, lets you choose the color that starts
       the game, by default is yellow.
     - Fast Ending, the game will end if there is only one
       player left.
     - Fast robot ending, the game will end if all humans
       have finisheed and only robots players left.
     - Super Fast Ending, the game will end as soon as a
       player arrives to goal.
     - Manual die, allows you to use your own die instead
       of the automatic one. When this option is active,
       the program will ask you for the value of the dice
       every time a player turn begins, be it machine or
       human. You can use the manual die if you don't trust
       the automatic die (but I assure you that Parchís v5
       does not cheat) or to play against another program.

Play with Parchís v5

    The Yellow player always starts (unless you have
    changed it), but if he doesn't play then begins the
    first color from Yellow advancing counterclockwise.

    When it is a person's turn, follow the indications that
    appear under the die and use one of the buttons under
    the text to perform the necessary action, be it
    throwing the dice, passing, choosing a pawn or move.
    The selected pawn to move will appear marked with a
    large cross and with a small cross the pawns that can
    be selected. Whe it is possible to move more than one
    pawn, the pawn with the large cross will be changing
    by pressing the choose button or clicking a small cross
    pawn with the mouse. To move, you can press the move
    button or drag the pawn to his destination, which will
    be marked with multi-colored arrows.

    In pairs game if you can eat a mate pawn you have the
    option to do a blockade instead. Pay atention to the
    cros icon that indicate the pawn destination, press
    several times the button to choose pawn or click on the
    tab chosen pawn to see the difference.

    If it's the machine turn, you don't have to do nothing,
    the text under the dice will indicate what it is doing.
    During the machine tuen you can pause the game by
    clicking on the Pause button, to continue click the
    Continue button.

    You can rotate the board with the mouse at any time to
    place the colors as you like.

Game speed

    In the Main Menu you will find the Game speed ​​option.
    Here you can select how fast run automatic players:
    slow, normal, fast or very fast.

Settings

    Also in the Main Menu you will find the option
    Settings. It will take you to a screen where you can
    choose:

    - Graphic dimensions, which allows you to change the
      screen size.
    - Language, you can choose between English or Spanish.
    - Board image, to choose between various boards
      designs, try them and keep the one you like.

    The choices you make will be preserved even if you
    leave of the program.

Game statistics

    In the Main Menu you will find the Game statistics
    option. It shows a window with the statistics up to the
    moment, percentage of dice obtained and special moves.

Global statistics

    Also in the Main Menu there there is the Global
    statistics option. It displays a list of the number of
    played games by game type, combination of players and
    type of dice used. For each player the victory
    percentages will appear.
