The parchís

The parchis is a board game derived from Pachisi. It is
very popular in Spain.

This game is played with 1 die and 4 pawns per player (up
to four). As in Pachisi, the aim is simple: players compete
on leading their four pawns out of their home, around the
whole board, into the color track and up to the center of
the board, chasing and "eating" each other in the process.

Here we present the rules that Parchís4A uses, they are
based on the Wikipedia spanish article.

Terminology

    The large square colored boxes in the corners are
      called "home".
    The rectangular squares, colored and numbered next to
      each home are called "start".
    The gray rectangular squares are called "safe".
    The triangular colored boxes in the center of the board
      are called "goal".
    Colored squares just before the goal are often called
      "corridor".
    Two pawns of the same color on the same square form a
      "blockade" and we say the barrier is open when one of
      those pawns is moved.
    To count seven, ten or twenty means that a player must
      move one pawn seven, ten or twenty squares,
      respectively.
    We use the word "eat" when a pawn occupies the position
      of an opponent's pawn and the latter is moved to its
      home.

Basic rules

    At the game beginning all the pawns are in the home of
      their color.
    The game is played in turns. Each player will roll the
      dice once each turn. Once played his turn, if he
      rolled a 6, the player will repeat the turn (see
      below). Otherwise he pass the turn to the next player
      counter-clockwise.
    Only when the given score does not allow any move the
      player does nothing. In all other cases, the player
      is required to do what I can do.
    The pawns move in a counter-clockwise from the start of
      its color to goal of its color. The pawns that are in
      home or in goal can not be moved.
    A pawn can not be moved to a square that already exist
      2 pawns, except for the special case when leaving
      home. Only home and goal may contain 3 or 4 pawns.

About the 5

    The player who gets a 5 on the die must pick a pawn
      from home to the start square. If this is not
      possible because he has two pawns at the start or
      because he no longer has to draw more pawns, he must
      move 5 squares with any pawn.
    By taking the first 5, 2 pawns are placed in the start.

About 1, 2, 3 and 4

    When the player rolls a 1, a 2, 3 or 4 he will advance
      one pawn one, two, three or four squares,
      respectively.

About the 6

    The player who rolls 6 advance one pawn six squares if
      he has pawns at home. If he has no pawns at home will
      count 7.
    The player who rolls 6 will repeat turn. If he rolls
      another 6 he will repeat again, but if he rolls a
      third six, the last pawn moved will go home. Only if
      the last moved pawn is in the corridor or if the
      player didn't move the second six, no pawn will go
      home, but he can not use the run and end his turn.

About blockades

    No pawn can pass over a blockade. This rule overrides
      any other.
    If a player has a blockade and rolls a 6 will open the
      barrier. The only exception to this rule occur when
      the barrier pawns can't advance, either because there
      is another blockade in the middle of the way or
      because they fall into a square occupied by another
      two pawns.

About eating

    If a pawn lands on a white square occupied by a pawn of
      another color will eat. The opponent's pawn will go
      to his color home. The player who eat will count 20.
    In the start and safe squares it is forbidden to eat
      and can be two different colored pawns.
    In the start can not be more than two pawns. If a
      player get a pawn from home and there are two
      opponent's pawns in the start, he will eat the last
      arrived pawn and will count 20. If it is the first 5
      for the player he will eat the two opponent's pawns
      but he will count 20 only once.

About the goal and game end

    A pawn enters the goal with a precise number obtained
      with the dice or because they count 10 or 20. If it
      isn't the exact number it can not enter.
    The player who puts a pawn in goal will count 10 with
      any of its other pawns.
    The player who manages to get all 4 pawns on the goal
      ends the game, stop throwing the dice and pass the
      turn.
    The player who first gets all 4 pawns on his goal win
      the game. The lost player is the one with pawns out of
      goal when all other players have finished.
